docs/models/icon/input_data.md, before:

# Input data

There are two types in input data sets available for ICON:

- General input data for use cases / production runs
- Testing input data for CI

## Santis 

On Säntis, all ICON input data is collected in the project `cws01`.

```shell
/capstor/store/cscs/userlab/cws01/
```

### Directory Tree

```
/capstor/store/cscs/userlab/cws01/
│
├── ci                                  # CI 
│   ├── testing-input-data/             # Input data for CI (git lfs repo)
│   └── buildbot_data/                  # Buildbot data
│       └── ref/                        # Reference data (hashed)
│
├── input/                              # All input data
│   ├── icon/                           # ICON-specific input
│   │   ├── clm/                        # ICON-CLM input
│   │   │   ├── independent/            # Input independent of case/domain
│   │   │   │   ├── aerosols            # ICON-CLM aerosol input datasets
│   │   │   │   ├── gcm                 # Global climate model boundary data
│   │   │   │   ├── rcm                 # Regional climate model boundary data
│   │   │   │   ├── ERA5                # ERA5 reanalysis forcing data
│   │   │   │   └── ERAInterim          # ERA-Interim reanalysis forcing data
│   │   │   │
│   │   │   └── eur-11/                 # EURO-CORDEX 0.11° domain-specific input
│   │   │       ├── aerosols
│   │   │       ├── gcm
│   │   │       └── rcm
│   │   │
│   │   ├── global/                     # ICON global model input
│   │   │   ├── grids/                  # ICON global grids at different resolutions
│   │   │   │   ├── R02B04/
│   │   │   │   │   ├── icon_grid_0013_R02B04_G.nc
│   │   │   │   │   └── index.txt
│   │   │   │   ├── R02B05/
│   │   │   │   │   ├── icon_grid_0019_R02B05_G.nc
│   │   │   │   │   ├── aerosol_kinne/       # Aerosol climatologies
│   │   │   │   │   ├── external_parameter/  # Surface and land-sea mask data
│   │   │   │   │   ├── initial_conditions/  # Initial state for atmosphere/ocean
│   │   │   │   │   ├── ozone/               # Ozone datasets
│   │   │   │   │   ├── ozone_old/           # Legacy ozone datasets
│   │   │   │   │   └── sst_and_seaice/      # SST & sea-ice boundary conditions
│   │   │   │   └── ...                      # Other grids (R02B06, R02B07, ...)
│   │   │   │
│   │   │   └── misc/                        # Other ICON global input data
│   │   │
│   │   └── misc/                            # Other ICON input not tied to CLM/global
│   │
│   └── misc/                                # Non-ICON input (placeholder for future)
│
└── reference/                               # Reference datasets
    ├── observations/                        # Ground-based or in-situ observations (e.g. eObs)
    ├── reanalysis/                          # Reanalysis datasets (e.g. ERA5)
    ├── satellite/                           # Satellite observations for validation
    └── model_comparisons/                   # Reference data from other models
```


## Input data pools

=== "Santis"
    ```shell
    /capstor/store/cscs/userlab/cws01/pool/data/ICON
    ```  
=== "Balfrin"
    ```shell
    /scratch/mch/jenkins/icon/pool/data/ICON
    ```
=== "Euler"
    ```shell
    /cluster/work/climate/icon_input
    ```    

## Testing input data pool

The input data for standard ICON tests are stored in a [Git-lfs repository :material-open-in-new:](https://gitlab.dkrz.de/icon/testing-input-data){:target="_blank"}.

=== "Santis"
    ```shell
     /capstor/store/cscs/userlab/d126/testing-input-data
    ```  
=== "Balfrin"
    ```shell
    /scratch/mch/icontest/testing-input-data
    ```
=== "Euler"
    ```shell
    /cluster/work/climate/icon_testing_input
    ```

Commit message:

Update input data structure and info box

docs/models/icon/input_data.md, after:

# Input data

There are two types in input data sets available for ICON:

- General input data for use cases / production runs
- Testing input data for CI

## Santis 

On Säntis, all ICON input data is collected in the project `cws01`.

```shell
/capstor/store/cscs/userlab/cws01/
```

### Directory Tree

!!! warning "Work in Progress"

    The directory tree below is a rough outline of the planned structure. It is subject
    to change and non-exhaustive. If you find data that is in the wrong place, or if you
    want to have your data added to the project, please contact
    [Michael Jähn](https://c2sm.ethz.ch/the-center/people/person-detail.html?persid=286091). 

```
/capstor/store/cscs/userlab/cws01/
│
├── ci                                  # CI 
│   ├── testing-input-data/             # Input data for CI (git lfs repo)
│   └── buildbot_data/                  # Buildbot data
│       ├── nwp                         # nwp
│       └── ref/                        # Reference data (hashed)
│
├── input/                              # All input data
│   ├── icon/                           # ICON-specific input
│   │   ├── clm/                        # ICON-CLM input
│   │   │   ├── independent/            # Input independent of case/domain
│   │   │   │   ├── aerosols            # ICON-CLM aerosol input datasets
│   │   │   │   ├── gcm                 # Global climate model boundary data
│   │   │   │   ├── rcm                 # Regional climate model boundary data
│   │   │   │   ├── ERA5                # ERA5 reanalysis forcing data
│   │   │   │   └── ERAInterim          # ERA-Interim reanalysis forcing data
│   │   │   │
│   │   │   └── europe11/               # EURO-CORDEX 0.11° domain-specific input
│   │   │       ├── aerosols
│   │   │       ├── gcm
│   │   │       └── rcm
│   │   │
│   │   ├── global/                     # ICON global model input
│   │   │   ├── grids/                  # ICON global grids at different resolutions
│   │   │   │   ├── R02B04/
│   │   │   │   │   ├── icon_grid_0013_R02B04_G.nc
│   │   │   │   │   └── index.txt
│   │   │   │   ├── R02B05/
│   │   │   │   │   ├── icon_grid_0019_R02B05_G.nc
│   │   │   │   │   ├── aerosol_kinne/       # Aerosol climatologies
│   │   │   │   │   ├── external_parameter/  # Surface and land-sea mask data
│   │   │   │   │   ├── initial_conditions/  # Initial state for atmosphere/ocean
│   │   │   │   │   ├── ozone/               # Ozone datasets
│   │   │   │   │   ├── ozone_old/           # Legacy ozone datasets
│   │   │   │   │   └── sst_and_seaice/      # SST & sea-ice boundary conditions
│   │   │   │   └── ...                      # Other grids (R02B06, R02B07, ...)
│   │   │   │
│   │   │   └── misc/                        # Other ICON global input data
│   │   │
│   │   └── misc/                            # Other ICON input not tied to CLM/global
│   │
│   └── misc/                                # Non-ICON input (placeholder for future)
│
├── pool
│   └── data
│       └── ICON
│           └── buildbot_data                # Buildbot data
│               ├── nwp                      # nwp
│               └── ref                      # References data (hashed)
└── reference/                               # Reference datasets
    ├── observations/                        # Ground-based or in-situ observations (e.g. eObs)
    └── eObs
        ├── eObs28.0
        ├── eObs29.0
        ├── eObs30.0
        └── eObs31.0
    ├── reanalysis/                          # Reanalysis datasets (e.g. ERA5)
    └── dkrz
        ├── ERA5
        └── ERAInterim
    ├── satellite/                           # Satellite observations for validation
    └── model_comparisons/                   # Reference data from other models
```


## Input data pools

=== "Santis"
    ```shell
    /capstor/store/cscs/userlab/cws01/pool/data/ICON
    ```  
=== "Balfrin"
    ```shell
    /scratch/mch/jenkins/icon/pool/data/ICON
    ```
=== "Euler"
    ```shell
    /cluster/work/climate/icon_input
    ```    

## Testing input data pool

The input data for standard ICON tests are stored in a [Git-lfs repository :material-open-in-new:](https://gitlab.dkrz.de/icon/testing-input-data){:target="_blank"}.

=== "Santis"
    ```shell
     /capstor/store/cscs/userlab/d126/testing-input-data
    ```  
=== "Balfrin"
    ```shell
    /scratch/mch/icontest/testing-input-data
    ```
=== "Euler"
    ```shell
    /cluster/work/climate/icon_testing_input
    ```
