announcements/index.md, before:

---
title: Announcements
layout: default
nav_order: 8
has_children: false
---

# Climate model and climate data workshop

published 09/11/2023
{: .label .label-grey}

We are pleased to announce our first Climate model and climate data workshop, which will take place on **Wednesday December 6th from 9:30 am to 3:00 pm**.

The workshop will give an introduction to what a climate model is, how it works and is tailored to the impacts community.

The registration is now open (30 places available). Places will be confirmed on a first-come, first-served basis.


More information about the workshop content and the registration form can be found on the [dedicated C2SM website page](https://c2sm.ethz.ch/education/technical-training/climate-model-and-climate-data-workshop-for-impact-research.html#)

---

# Git for Advanced Workshop

published 22/08/2023
{: .label .label-grey}

We are pleased to announce our next Git for Advanced workshop, which will take place on **Thursday, September 28th from 9:00 am to 12:30 pm**.

The registration is now open (30 places available). Places will be confirmed on a first-come, first-served basis.

More information about the workshop content and the registration form can be found at [Git for Advanced Workshop 2023](https://c2sm.ethz.ch/education/technical-training/c2sm-git-advanced-workshop-2023.html).

Commit message:

Announce CIUW (#97)
* Update index.md

* Update index.md

announcements/index.md, after:

---
title: Announcements
layout: default
nav_order: 8
has_children: false
---

# COSMO/ICON User Workshop

published 30/11/2023
{: .label .label-grey}

We announce the COSMO/ICON User Workshop on **12 February 2024** as a physical meeting. It will take place at the airport Radisson Hotel next to MeteoSwiss.
 
The COSMO/ICON User Workshop is a rather informal one-day event, whose goal is to bring together users and developers of these two models, 
to share experience and knowledge, and to get insights into some projects involving these models. 
 
Please register for the workshop by email to _andreas.pauling@meteoswiss.ch_ by **December 18th, 2023**.
You are strongly encouraged to present a poster or to give a talk at this informal event!  Please include a preliminary title in your email if you plan to do so.

Your contribution could be an overview of activities revolving around these models, 
a description of a technical problem that you are dealing with at the moment, 
results from a specific project, or a demonstration of a tool that can be useful for other COSMO/ICON users.


# Climate model and climate data workshop

published 09/11/2023
{: .label .label-grey}

We are pleased to announce our first Climate model and climate data workshop, which will take place on **Wednesday December 6th from 9:30 am to 3:00 pm**.

The workshop will give an introduction to what a climate model is, how it works and is tailored to the impacts community.

The registration is now open (30 places available). Places will be confirmed on a first-come, first-served basis.


More information about the workshop content and the registration form can be found on the [dedicated C2SM website page](https://c2sm.ethz.ch/education/technical-training/climate-model-and-climate-data-workshop-for-impact-research.html#)

---

# Git for Advanced Workshop

published 22/08/2023
{: .label .label-grey}

We are pleased to announce our next Git for Advanced workshop, which will take place on **Thursday, September 28th from 9:00 am to 12:30 pm**.

The registration is now open (30 places available). Places will be confirmed on a first-come, first-served basis.

More information about the workshop content and the registration form can be found at [Git for Advanced Workshop 2023](https://c2sm.ethz.ch/education/technical-training/c2sm-git-advanced-workshop-2023.html).
