docs/models/cesm.md, before:

# CESM
The Community Earth System Model (CESM) is a fully-coupled,
global climate model that provides state-of-the-art computer simulations of the Earth's past, 
present, and future climate states. For more info please see the [CESM Homepage :material-open-in-new:](https://www.cesm.ucar.edu/){:target="_blank"}.

## Support status
The current supported version on [ETH Cluster Euler :material-open-in-new:](https://scicomp.ethz.ch/wiki/Main_Page){:target="_blank"} are **CESM 1.2.2** and **CESM 2.1.2**.
Newer CESM2 versions are supported by request. We recommend to use CESM2. Please contact [Urs Beyerle :material-open-in-new:](https://usys.ethz.ch/personen/profil.NDk5MTg=.TGlzdC82MzcsMzIwMTk3MjIy.html){:target="_blank"} for support.

## Get started
* [Setup a CESM2 control run :material-open-in-new:](https://wiki.iac.ethz.ch/Climphys/ProjectCESM2SetupControlRun){:target="_blank"} (ETH login required)
* [Setup a CESM1 control run :material-open-in-new:](https://wiki.iac.ethz.ch/Climphys/ProjectCESM122SetupControlRun){:target="_blank"} (ETH login required)

## Input files
- **On Euler:** `/cluster/work/climate/cesm/inputdata`

Commit message:

Update CESM information (#381)
* Remove Urs from Core Team

* Remove support comment for CESM

* Update CESM page

* GitHub Action: Apply external link format

* Fix typo

* Linting

---------

Co-authored-by: mjaehn <mjaehn@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/models/cesm.md, after:

# CESM

The Community Earth System Model (CESM) is a fully-coupled,
global climate model that provides state-of-the-art computer simulations of the Earth's past,
present, and future climate states. For more info please see the [CESM Homepage :material-open-in-new:](https://www.cesm.ucar.edu/){:target="_blank"}.

## Support status

The current supported versions on [ETH Cluster Euler :material-open-in-new:](https://docs.hpc.ethz.ch/){:target="_blank"} are:

- **CESM 2.2.2**: runs natively under Ubuntu on Euler
- **CESM 2.1.5**: runs natively under Ubuntu on Euler
- **CESM 2.1.2**: runs only in CentOS7 containers on Euler

Newer CESM2 versions are supported by request. **CESM 1.2.2** is no longer supported.

If you need help or support, please use the [C2SM discussion forum :material-open-in-new:](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support/discussions){:target="_blank"}.

## Get started

- [Overview Page CESM :material-open-in-new:](https://wiki.iac.ethz.ch/bin/viewauth/Climphys/ProjectCESM){:target="_blank"} (IAC-ETH login required)
- [Setup a CESM2 control run :material-open-in-new:](https://wiki.iac.ethz.ch/Climphys/ProjectCESM2SetupControlRun){:target="_blank"} (IAC-ETH login required)

## Input files

- **On Euler:** `/cluster/work/climate/cesm/inputdata`
