docs/models/icon.md, before:

# ICON
ICON (Icosahedral Nonhydrostatic Weather and Climate Model) is a global model suitable for climate and weather prediction at regional and global domains.
It is a joint project of [DWD :material-open-in-new:](https://www.dwd.de/DE/Home/home_node.html){:target="_blank"}, [MPI-M :material-open-in-new:](https://mpimet.mpg.de/startseite){:target="_blank"} and [KIT :material-open-in-new:](https://www.kit.edu/){:target="_blank"}.

To stay informed about what is going on in the ICON world and to get to know other ICON users, please attend our [quarterly ICON meeting](../events/icon_meetings/index.md).

## Support status
C2SM facilitates the utilisation of ICON on the [Piz Daint :material-open-in-new:](https://www.cscs.ch/computers/piz-daint){:target="_blank"} and [Euler :material-open-in-new:](https://scicomp.ethz.ch/wiki/Euler){:target="_blank"} computing platforms for the CPU and GPU architectures.

### Supported release
The latest release distributed by C2SM, currently `2024.01`, is continuously being tested on both Piz Daint and Euler and receives patches when necessary.

## Mailing list
If you use ICON, please follow [these instructions](../events/icon_meetings/index.md#c2sm-icon-mailing-list) to subscribe to our mailing list.

## Access
The ICON repository is hosted on the C2SM GitHub organisation. If you do not have access, please follow the instructions under [How to get Access](../index.md#how-to-get-access).

Once you have access, clone the repository from GitHub using the SSH protocol:

  ```bash
  git clone --recurse-submodules git@github.com:C2SM/icon.git
  ```
  If you do not already have an SSH key set up for GitHub, but would like to do so, follow the [instructions :material-open-in-new:](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent){:target="_blank"}.
    
## Configure and compile
The ICON build process is almost identical for Piz Daint and Euler. For both machines, Spack is used to build ICON. Refer to the official spack-c2sm documentation for [installing ICON using Spack :material-open-in-new:](https://c2sm.github.io/spack-c2sm/latest/QuickStart.html#icon){:target="_blank"}.

### Piz Daint
To [set up a Spack instance :material-open-in-new:](https://c2sm.github.io/spack-c2sm/latest/QuickStart.html#at-cscs-daint-tsa-balfrin){:target="_blank"}, ensure that you clone the repository using the Spack tag provided in the ICON repository at [config/cscs/SPACK_TAG_DAINT :material-open-in-new:](https://github.com/C2SM/icon/blob/main/config/cscs/SPACK_TAG_DAINT){:target="_blank"}.

### Euler
To [set up a Spack instance :material-open-in-new:](https://c2sm.github.io/spack-c2sm/latest/QuickStart.html#at-cscs-daint-tsa-balfrin){:target="_blank"}, ensure that you clone the repository using the Spack tag provided in the ICON repository at [config/ethz/SPACK_TAG_EULER :material-open-in-new:](https://github.com/C2SM/icon/blob/main/config/ethz/SPACK_TAG_EULER){:target="_blank"}.

Euler Support recommends to compile code on compute-nodes. Unfortunately [internet-access on Euler compute-nodes is restricted :material-open-in-new:](https://scicomp.ethz.ch/wiki/Accessing_the_clusters#Internet_Security){:target="_blank"}.
Therefore a two-step install needs to be performed:

```bash
# fetch and install cosmo-eccodes-definitions on login-node
spack install cosmo-eccodes-definitions

# compile ICON on compute-nodes
srun -N 1 -c 12 --mem-per-cpu=20G spack install -v -j 12
```

### Temporary Tödi

!!! warning "These are only temporary guidelines during the acceptance phase of Alps"

    - Santis will be the official W&C vcluster but Tödi has to be deployed on the entire Alps system for the acceptance phase. These guidelines are for the ones who have access to Tödi.
    - The resulting executable is not tested.
    - Anything can go wrong

- Get `spack-c2sm`
    ```shell
    git clone --depth 1 --recurse-submodules --shallow-submodules https://github.com/C2SM/spack-c2sm.git
    ```

- Start user environment
    ```shell
    uenv start /capstor/scratch/cscs/leclairm/uenvs/images/icon_c2sm_v1_rc3.sqfs
    ```

- Setup `spack-c2sm`
    ```shell
    source spack-c2sm/setup-env.sh /user-environment
    ```

- Adapt your spack environment following `/capstor/scratch/cscs/leclairm/icon-nwp/config/cscs/spack/uenv/mch_gpu_double/spack.yaml`  and activate it as usual with `spack env activate`.

- Build as usual from your icon root dir
    ```shell
    spack install
    ```

- Submit job with uenv
    ```shell
    sbatch --uenv /capstor/scratch/cscs/leclairm/uenvs/images/icon_c2sm_v1_rc3.sqfs my_run_script
    ```

## Run test case with ICON
In the *run* folder, you find many prepared test cases, which you can convert into run scripts. To generate the runscript of one of the experiment files, e.g. *mch_ch_lowres*, you can use the `make_runscripts` function.

```bash
./make_runscripts mch_ch_lowres
```

To run the created runscript, navigate to the *run* subdirectory and submit the runscript.

```bash
cd run && sbatch ./exp.mch_ch_lowres.run
```
You may need to adjust the account in the runscript to match your permissions. Alternatively, you can include `--account <my_account_id>` in the `sbatch` command.

## Input data
ICON input data are stored at the following locations:

- **Piz Daint (CSCS):** `/users/icontest/pool/data/ICON`
- **Euler:** `/cluster/work/climate/icon_input`


## Toolset
In the [Tools](../tools/index.md) section, you will find relevant tools for working with ICON:

* [**Extpar**](../tools/extpar.md): External parameters for the ICON grid (preprocessing)
* [**Processing Chain**](../tools/processing_chain.md): Python workflow tool for ICON
* [**SPICE**](../tools/spice.md): Starter package for ICON-CLM experiments
* [**icon-vis**](../tools/icon-vis.md): Python scripts to visualise ICON data

## Projects
Learn more about ongoing projects involving ETHZ in the development of ICON:

  * [EXCLAIM :material-open-in-new:](https://exclaim.ethz.ch/){:target="_blank"} 
  * [ICON-HAMMOZ :material-open-in-new:](https://redmine.hammoz.ethz.ch/projects/icon-hammoz){:target="_blank"}

## Documentation
ICON documentation is available at:

   * [ICON Tutorial (DWD) :material-open-in-new:](https://www.dwd.de/DE/leistungen/nwv_icon_tutorial/nwv_icon_tutorial.html){:target="_blank"}
   * [Getting Started with ICON :material-open-in-new:](https://www.icon-model.org/icon_model/getting_started){:target="_blank"}
   * [MPI-M documentation :material-open-in-new:](https://code.mpimet.mpg.de/projects/iconpublic/wiki/Documentation){:target="_blank"}
     
## External Software
The following external software is useful for working with ICON data:

   * [CDO :material-open-in-new:](https://code.zmaw.de/projects/cdo){:target="_blank"}

Commit message:

Icon workflow (#184)
* Add instructions for ICON to avoid eccodes error

* Remove probtest source, delete existing setting file

* Update docs/models/icon.md

Co-authored-by: Annika Lauber <annika.lauber@c2sm.ethz.ch>

* Change release version

* Add links to repo/tag

* GitHub Action: Apply external link format

* Announce Git for Advanced workshop

* File pushed to wrong branch - remove again

* Update icon.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Michael Jähn <mjaehn@ethz.ch>
Co-authored-by: Annika Lauber <annika.lauber@c2sm.ethz.ch>
Co-authored-by: mjaehn <mjaehn@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/models/icon.md, after:

# ICON
ICON (Icosahedral Nonhydrostatic Weather and Climate Model) is a global model suitable for climate and weather prediction at regional and global domains.
It is a joint project of [DWD :material-open-in-new:](https://www.dwd.de/DE/Home/home_node.html){:target="_blank"}, [MPI-M :material-open-in-new:](https://mpimet.mpg.de/startseite){:target="_blank"} and [KIT :material-open-in-new:](https://www.kit.edu/){:target="_blank"}.

To stay informed about what is going on in the ICON world and to get to know other ICON users, please attend our [quarterly ICON meeting](../events/icon_meetings/index.md).

## Support status
C2SM facilitates the utilisation of ICON on the [Piz Daint :material-open-in-new:](https://www.cscs.ch/computers/piz-daint){:target="_blank"} and [Euler :material-open-in-new:](https://scicomp.ethz.ch/wiki/Euler){:target="_blank"} computing platforms for the CPU and GPU architectures.

### Supported release
The latest release distributed by C2SM, currently [`2024.07` :material-open-in-new:](https://github.com/C2SM/icon/tree/2024.07){:target="_blank"}, is continuously being tested on both Piz Daint and Euler and receives patches when necessary.

## Mailing list
If you use ICON, please follow [these instructions](../events/icon_meetings/index.md#c2sm-icon-mailing-list) to subscribe to our mailing list.

## Access
The [ICON repository :material-open-in-new:](https://github.com/C2SM/icon){:target="_blank"} is hosted on the C2SM GitHub organisation. If you do not have access, please follow the instructions under [How to get Access](../index.md#how-to-get-access).

Once you have access, clone the repository from GitHub using the SSH protocol:

  ```bash
  git clone --recurse-submodules git@github.com:C2SM/icon.git
  ```
  If you do not already have an SSH key set up for GitHub, but would like to do so, follow the [instructions :material-open-in-new:](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent){:target="_blank"}.
    
## Configure and compile
The ICON build process is almost identical for Piz Daint and Euler. For both machines, Spack is used to build ICON. Refer to the official spack-c2sm documentation for [installing ICON using Spack :material-open-in-new:](https://c2sm.github.io/spack-c2sm/latest/QuickStart.html#icon){:target="_blank"}.

### Piz Daint
To [set up a Spack instance :material-open-in-new:](https://c2sm.github.io/spack-c2sm/latest/QuickStart.html#at-cscs-daint-tsa-balfrin){:target="_blank"}, ensure that you clone the repository using the Spack tag provided in the ICON repository at [config/cscs/SPACK_TAG_DAINT :material-open-in-new:](https://github.com/C2SM/icon/blob/main/config/cscs/SPACK_TAG_DAINT){:target="_blank"}.

After building ICON using `spack install`, you need to create a `setting` file, which is only necessary once after the first compilation:

=== "daint_gpu_nvhpc"
    ```shell
    SPACK_TAG=$(cat "config/cscs/SPACK_TAG_C2SM")
    ENV_NAME=daint_gpu_nvhpc # modify if necessary
    module load daint-gpu CDO
    rm -f setting
    ./config/cscs/create_sh_env $SPACK_TAG $ENV_NAME
    ```

### Euler
To [set up a Spack instance :material-open-in-new:](https://c2sm.github.io/spack-c2sm/latest/QuickStart.html#at-cscs-daint-tsa-balfrin){:target="_blank"}, ensure that you clone the repository using the Spack tag provided in the ICON repository at [config/ethz/SPACK_TAG_EULER :material-open-in-new:](https://github.com/C2SM/icon/blob/main/config/ethz/SPACK_TAG_EULER){:target="_blank"}.

Euler Support recommends to compile code on compute-nodes. Unfortunately [internet-access on Euler compute-nodes is restricted :material-open-in-new:](https://scicomp.ethz.ch/wiki/Accessing_the_clusters#Internet_Security){:target="_blank"}.
Therefore a two-step install needs to be performed:

```bash
# fetch and install cosmo-eccodes-definitions on login-node
spack install cosmo-eccodes-definitions

# compile ICON on compute-nodes
srun -N 1 -c 12 --mem-per-cpu=20G spack install -v -j 12
```

### Temporary Tödi

!!! warning "These are only temporary guidelines during the acceptance phase of Alps"

    - Santis will be the official W&C vcluster but Tödi has to be deployed on the entire Alps system for the acceptance phase. These guidelines are for the ones who have access to Tödi.
    - The resulting executable is not tested.
    - Anything can go wrong

- Get `spack-c2sm`
    ```shell
    git clone --depth 1 --recurse-submodules --shallow-submodules https://github.com/C2SM/spack-c2sm.git
    ```

- Start user environment
    ```shell
    uenv start /capstor/scratch/cscs/leclairm/uenvs/images/icon_c2sm_v1_rc3.sqfs
    ```

- Setup `spack-c2sm`
    ```shell
    source spack-c2sm/setup-env.sh /user-environment
    ```

- Adapt your spack environment following `/capstor/scratch/cscs/leclairm/icon-nwp/config/cscs/spack/uenv/mch_gpu_double/spack.yaml`  and activate it as usual with `spack env activate`.

- Build as usual from your icon root dir
    ```shell
    spack install
    ```

- Submit job with uenv
    ```shell
    sbatch --uenv /capstor/scratch/cscs/leclairm/uenvs/images/icon_c2sm_v1_rc3.sqfs my_run_script
    ```

## Run test case with ICON
In the *run* folder, you find many prepared test cases, which you can convert into run scripts. To generate the runscript of one of the experiment files, e.g. *mch_ch_lowres*, you can use the `make_runscripts` function.

```bash
./make_runscripts mch_ch_lowres
```

To run the created runscript, navigate to the *run* subdirectory and submit the runscript.

```bash
cd run && sbatch ./exp.mch_ch_lowres.run
```
You may need to adjust the account in the runscript to match your permissions. Alternatively, you can include `--account <my_account_id>` in the `sbatch` command.

## Input data
ICON input data are stored at the following locations:

- **Piz Daint (CSCS):** `/users/icontest/pool/data/ICON`
- **Euler:** `/cluster/work/climate/icon_input`


## Toolset
In the [Tools](../tools/index.md) section, you will find relevant tools for working with ICON:

* [**Extpar**](../tools/extpar.md): External parameters for the ICON grid (preprocessing)
* [**Processing Chain**](../tools/processing_chain.md): Python workflow tool for ICON
* [**SPICE**](../tools/spice.md): Starter package for ICON-CLM experiments
* [**icon-vis**](../tools/icon-vis.md): Python scripts to visualise ICON data

## Projects
Learn more about ongoing projects involving ETHZ in the development of ICON:

  * [EXCLAIM :material-open-in-new:](https://exclaim.ethz.ch/){:target="_blank"} 
  * [ICON-HAMMOZ :material-open-in-new:](https://redmine.hammoz.ethz.ch/projects/icon-hammoz){:target="_blank"}

## Documentation
ICON documentation is available at:

   * [ICON Tutorial (DWD) :material-open-in-new:](https://www.dwd.de/DE/leistungen/nwv_icon_tutorial/nwv_icon_tutorial.html){:target="_blank"}
   * [Getting Started with ICON :material-open-in-new:](https://www.icon-model.org/icon_model/getting_started){:target="_blank"}
   * [MPI-M documentation :material-open-in-new:](https://code.mpimet.mpg.de/projects/iconpublic/wiki/Documentation){:target="_blank"}
     
## External Software
The following external software is useful for working with ICON data:

   * [CDO :material-open-in-new:](https://code.zmaw.de/projects/cdo){:target="_blank"}
