tasks/index.md, before:

---
title: Tasks
layout: default
nav_order: 1
has_children: false
---

# Tasks
{: .no_toc }

C2SM's technical team is structured around the four working groups described below and receives tasks from three different entities (C2SM members, community projects and third party projects), each of them following a specific assignment procedure.

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}
</details>


## Working Groups

### WG 1 - High Performance Computing

Activities in this group mainly contribute to the development and usage of weather and climate models such as ICON or COSMO for modern technologies (e.g., beyond CPU architectures).


### WG 2 - Weather and Climate Modeling

This group gathers all activities revolving around weather and climate modelling at the exclusion of WG 1 (HPC), like usage, maintenance and support. They can target weather and climate models and their potential extensions (e.g., aerosols, chemistry) and ESMs. Tasks may include coupling of model components, general tools around pre- and post-processing, automated testing, etc.


### WG 3 - Next Generation Swiss Climate Scenarios

This group focuses on the Next Generation Swiss Climate Scenarios. Tasks typically include running ICON-CLM simulations or providing input data.


### WG 4 - Impact Research

This group focuses on providing climate data for impact research. Tasks may include standardizing and documenting climate model outputs or climate observations for easier use. We also provide regular support on how to use this type of data.


## Task Assignment

The C2SM Executive Office accepts tasks from three different entities each following a specific procedure described below.

{: .attention-title }

In any case, please submit concrete tasks by following the instructions on our GitHub repository [Tasks-Support](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support).


### Requirements for Tasks

Tasks are one-​time assignments that typically involve the development of a new model feature, acceleration/optimization of a model feature, or other technical improvements to a model. Tasks are proposed by one or more C2SM members and approved by the C2SM Working Groups (WGs). They must be related to our supported [tools](https://c2sm.github.io/tools/) and [models](https://c2sm.github.io/models/).


### Overview of current tasks

An overview of all submitted tasks can be found as the [issues list](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support/issues) of our [Tasks-Support](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support) repository. The current task status of each WG is visible under the [projects](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support/projects?query=is%3Aopen) section.


### Detailed task assignment

Task assignment depends on which entity submitted it. This section describes terms, conditions and procedures in the three possible cases.

<details close markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Tasks from C2SM Member Groups
  </summary>
  {: .text-gamma }
1. **Submission:**
Tasks can be submitted as issues through our GitHub repository [Tasks-Support](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support) at any time. The task proposal must include a description and goals of the task, a time estimate, a statement of urgency, the groups involved, and at least one contact person. It should also describe the benefit to C2SM. Please follow the instructions for [Submit a Task](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support#submit-a-task).

2. **Evaluation:**
The Core Team will evaluate the proposals and may provide feedback/ask questions/reiterate the proposals to the groups. Priority will be given to tasks with greater benefit to multiple C2SM groups. Updates on the tasks will be given directly on the submitted task in the GitHub repository.

3. **Core Team starts working on task:**
Depending on the urgency or current workload of the Core Team, C2SM may begin work on the task immediately or at a later point in time.

4. **Feedback and Discussion of Tasks:**
During the biannual WG Day, to which representatives of each C2SM member group are invited, the status and future of submitted tasks are discussed. Members can provide critical feedback on the process.
</details>

<details close markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Tasks from Community Projects
  </summary>
  {: .text-gamma }
  
Tasks are also taken from C2SM Community Projects. These are large, perennial, and joint research and/or development projects involving at least three C2SM groups and two different partner institutions, with a substantial financial volume. Their overall objective supports the implementation of one or more of the four pillars of C2SM. The project produces results that no single group could have produced on its own. Their results benefit a large majority of C2SM members. These projects receive significant support from C2SM core funding in the form of in-kind contributions from core staff.


##### Community Project Task Assignment Process
{: .no_toc }

- The C2SM Steering Committee (SC) discusses and recommends C2SM's involvement in a Community Project at the proposal stage. This includes a suggestion on the approximate number of FTEs to be reserved for the project;
- The C2SM Executive Director (ED) forwards the information to the core team, and together with the responsible programmers evaluates the feasibility of the plans, taking into account all other ongoing activities and plans;
- The ED forwards the information back to the SC;
- The SC approves the plans and time allocated to the Community Project;
- The C2SM core team reserves the FTEs assuming the project will be funded;
- At the latest at the beginning of the project, the project steering group develops and formulates how it envisions the involvement of the core team and defines specific tasks. The tasks are submitted as a proposal to the C2SM ED and the involved programmers;
- The ED and the responsible programmer(s) evaluate the tasks, provide feedback/clarification, and finally submit their proposal to the C2SM SC;
- The SC approves the task list;
- The task assignment from Community Projects is repeated regularly, at biannual or annual intervals, ideally 1-2 months before the biannual Working Group Day.


##### Current projects
{: .no_toc }

- [EXCLAIM](https://c2sm.ethz.ch/research/exclaim.html)
- Planned: Next generation Swiss climate scenarios CH202X

</details>

<details close markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Tasks from third-party Projects
  </summary>
  {: .text-gamma }

As outlined in [C2SM's business plan for 2021-25](https://ethz.ch/content/dam/ethz/special-interest/usys/c2sm-dam/center/documents/c2sm_business_plan_final_18nov19.pdf), the Executive Office also relies heavily on funding from third-party projects. We are therefore happy to contribute to the research projects of our members (e.g., SNF, EU, ETH) in our fields of expertise.


##### Third-Party Projects that Benefit Multiple C2SM Groups
{: .no_toc }

These can be projects of individual C2SM members as PI, possibly together with other co-PIs from the community, funding individual tasks of core team programmers. These projects will be supported in particular if the results will benefit several C2SM groups.


##### Third-Party Projects with Benefits to the PI Only
{: .no_toc }

A member may also propose a task/tasks to be funded from their project, but where the benefit is limited to their group. These proposals will be realized if C2SM capacity is available. However, they will have a lower priority than projects with a greater benefit to the community.


##### Task Portfolio
{: .no_toc }

The core team's contributions consist largely of technical model development and support tasks. Individual tasks may also include setting up and maintaining a project website, or organizing individual workshops or seminar series.


##### Procedure for Proposing Participation in a Third-Party Project
{: .no_toc }

- The project PI contacts the C2SM Executive Director (ED) at the proposal stage by submitting a written proposal similar to the task proposals for group tasks;
- The ED, along with an assigned core team member, will provide feedback to the PI and may review the proposal again;
- If the proposal meets the above conditions, C2SM will consider it accepted and reserve time for its execution in the following year;
- C2SM will reserve approximately 3-7 person months (0.3-0.6 FTE) per year for tasks from external projects.
</details>

Commit message:

Add 'How to get Access' (#100)
* Add 'How to get Access'

* Update models/icon.md

Co-authored-by: Annika Lauber <annika.lauber@c2sm.ethz.ch>

* Modify access section

* Add reference to support and tasks

---------

Co-authored-by: Annika Lauber <annika.lauber@c2sm.ethz.ch>

tasks/index.md, after:

---
title: Tasks
layout: default
nav_order: 1
has_children: false
---

# Tasks
{: .no_toc }

C2SM's technical team is structured around the four working groups described below and receives tasks from three different entities (C2SM members, community projects and third party projects), each of them following a specific assignment procedure.

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}
</details>


## Working Groups

### WG 1 - High Performance Computing

Activities in this group mainly contribute to the development and usage of weather and climate models such as ICON or COSMO for modern technologies (e.g., beyond CPU architectures).


### WG 2 - Weather and Climate Modeling

This group gathers all activities revolving around weather and climate modelling at the exclusion of WG 1 (HPC), like usage, maintenance and support. They can target weather and climate models and their potential extensions (e.g., aerosols, chemistry) and ESMs. Tasks may include coupling of model components, general tools around pre- and post-processing, automated testing, etc.


### WG 3 - Next Generation Swiss Climate Scenarios

This group focuses on the Next Generation Swiss Climate Scenarios. Tasks typically include running ICON-CLM simulations or providing input data.


### WG 4 - Impact Research

This group focuses on providing climate data for impact research. Tasks may include standardizing and documenting climate model outputs or climate observations for easier use. We also provide regular support on how to use this type of data.


## Task Assignment

The C2SM Executive Office accepts tasks from three different entities each following a specific procedure described below.

{: .attention-title }

In any case, please submit concrete tasks by following the instructions on our GitHub repository [Tasks-Support](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support).
If you don't have access, please follow the instructions under [How to get Access](https://c2sm.github.io/#how-to-get-access).


### Requirements for Tasks

Tasks are one-​time assignments that typically involve the development of a new model feature, acceleration/optimization of a model feature, or other technical improvements to a model. Tasks are proposed by one or more C2SM members and approved by the C2SM Working Groups (WGs). They must be related to our supported [tools](https://c2sm.github.io/tools/) and [models](https://c2sm.github.io/models/).


### Overview of current tasks

An overview of all submitted tasks can be found as the [issues list](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support/issues) of our [Tasks-Support](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support) repository. The current task status of each WG is visible under the [projects](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support/projects?query=is%3Aopen) section.


### Detailed task assignment

Task assignment depends on which entity submitted it. This section describes terms, conditions and procedures in the three possible cases.

<details close markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Tasks from C2SM Member Groups
  </summary>
  {: .text-gamma }
1. **Submission:**
Tasks can be submitted as issues through our GitHub repository [Tasks-Support](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support) at any time. The task proposal must include a description and goals of the task, a time estimate, a statement of urgency, the groups involved, and at least one contact person. It should also describe the benefit to C2SM. Please follow the instructions for [Submit a Task](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support#submit-a-task).

2. **Evaluation:**
The Core Team will evaluate the proposals and may provide feedback/ask questions/reiterate the proposals to the groups. Priority will be given to tasks with greater benefit to multiple C2SM groups. Updates on the tasks will be given directly on the submitted task in the GitHub repository.

3. **Core Team starts working on task:**
Depending on the urgency or current workload of the Core Team, C2SM may begin work on the task immediately or at a later point in time.

4. **Feedback and Discussion of Tasks:**
During the biannual WG Day, to which representatives of each C2SM member group are invited, the status and future of submitted tasks are discussed. Members can provide critical feedback on the process.
</details>

<details close markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Tasks from Community Projects
  </summary>
  {: .text-gamma }
  
Tasks are also taken from C2SM Community Projects. These are large, perennial, and joint research and/or development projects involving at least three C2SM groups and two different partner institutions, with a substantial financial volume. Their overall objective supports the implementation of one or more of the four pillars of C2SM. The project produces results that no single group could have produced on its own. Their results benefit a large majority of C2SM members. These projects receive significant support from C2SM core funding in the form of in-kind contributions from core staff.


##### Community Project Task Assignment Process
{: .no_toc }

- The C2SM Steering Committee (SC) discusses and recommends C2SM's involvement in a Community Project at the proposal stage. This includes a suggestion on the approximate number of FTEs to be reserved for the project;
- The C2SM Executive Director (ED) forwards the information to the core team, and together with the responsible programmers evaluates the feasibility of the plans, taking into account all other ongoing activities and plans;
- The ED forwards the information back to the SC;
- The SC approves the plans and time allocated to the Community Project;
- The C2SM core team reserves the FTEs assuming the project will be funded;
- At the latest at the beginning of the project, the project steering group develops and formulates how it envisions the involvement of the core team and defines specific tasks. The tasks are submitted as a proposal to the C2SM ED and the involved programmers;
- The ED and the responsible programmer(s) evaluate the tasks, provide feedback/clarification, and finally submit their proposal to the C2SM SC;
- The SC approves the task list;
- The task assignment from Community Projects is repeated regularly, at biannual or annual intervals, ideally 1-2 months before the biannual Working Group Day.


##### Current projects
{: .no_toc }

- [EXCLAIM](https://c2sm.ethz.ch/research/exclaim.html)
- Planned: Next generation Swiss climate scenarios CH202X

</details>

<details close markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Tasks from third-party Projects
  </summary>
  {: .text-gamma }

As outlined in [C2SM's business plan for 2021-25](https://ethz.ch/content/dam/ethz/special-interest/usys/c2sm-dam/center/documents/c2sm_business_plan_final_18nov19.pdf), the Executive Office also relies heavily on funding from third-party projects. We are therefore happy to contribute to the research projects of our members (e.g., SNF, EU, ETH) in our fields of expertise.


##### Third-Party Projects that Benefit Multiple C2SM Groups
{: .no_toc }

These can be projects of individual C2SM members as PI, possibly together with other co-PIs from the community, funding individual tasks of core team programmers. These projects will be supported in particular if the results will benefit several C2SM groups.


##### Third-Party Projects with Benefits to the PI Only
{: .no_toc }

A member may also propose a task/tasks to be funded from their project, but where the benefit is limited to their group. These proposals will be realized if C2SM capacity is available. However, they will have a lower priority than projects with a greater benefit to the community.


##### Task Portfolio
{: .no_toc }

The core team's contributions consist largely of technical model development and support tasks. Individual tasks may also include setting up and maintaining a project website, or organizing individual workshops or seminar series.


##### Procedure for Proposing Participation in a Third-Party Project
{: .no_toc }

- The project PI contacts the C2SM Executive Director (ED) at the proposal stage by submitting a written proposal similar to the task proposals for group tasks;
- The ED, along with an assigned core team member, will provide feedback to the PI and may review the proposal again;
- If the proposal meets the above conditions, C2SM will consider it accepted and reserve time for its execution in the following year;
- C2SM will reserve approximately 3-7 person months (0.3-0.6 FTE) per year for tasks from external projects.
</details>
