docs/datasets/index.md, before:


# Datasets

C2SM provides different climate datasets such as CMIP5, CMIP6 or CORDEX, as downloaded from the original sources, as well as processed datasets such as the so-called CMIP6-NextGeneration (CMIP6-ng) archive.

Since July 2024, C2SM offers access to climate model and reanalysis data via our web-based climate data extraction tool [Zephyr](../tools/zephyr.md), available at [https://zephyr.ethz.ch :material-open-in-new:](https://zephyr.ethz.ch){:target="_blank"}. Zephyr allows you to request climate data from C2SM and simultaneously extract specific regions or individual grid points directly from your browser. Once your request has been submitted and successfully processed, you will receive a download link to access your requested data directly from your web browser.

If you need access to other climate datasets, contact us at [support@c2sm.ethz.ch](mailto:support@c2sm.ethz.ch) or add an [issue :material-open-in-new:](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support/issues){:target="_blank"} and we will support you with your request.

Commit message:

Ecmwf data cube (#272)
* Update index.md

* Create ecmwf_data_cube.md

* GitHub Action: Apply external link format

* Update SUMMARY.md

* Update ecmwf_data_cube.md

adjusted warning

* Update ecmwf_data_cube.md

* Formatting

---------

Co-authored-by: ruthlorenz <ruthlorenz@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Michael Jähn <mjaehn@ethz.ch>

docs/datasets/index.md, after:


# Datasets

C2SM provides different climate datasets such as CMIP5, CMIP6 or CORDEX, as downloaded from the original sources, as well as processed datasets such as the so-called CMIP6-NextGeneration (CMIP6-ng) archive. Most datasets are hosted at IAC:

Since July 2024, C2SM offers access to climate model and reanalysis data via our web-based climate data extraction tool [Zephyr](../tools/zephyr.md), available at [https://zephyr.ethz.ch :material-open-in-new:](https://zephyr.ethz.ch){:target="_blank"}. Zephyr allows you to request climate data from C2SM and simultaneously extract specific regions or individual grid points directly from your browser. Once your request has been submitted and successfully processed, you will receive a download link to access your requested data directly from your web browser.

At CSCS work is under way for the ECMWF Data Cube.

If you need access to other climate datasets, contact us at [support@c2sm.ethz.ch](mailto:support@c2sm.ethz.ch) or add an [issue :material-open-in-new:](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support/issues){:target="_blank"} and we will support you with your request.
