# ICON Meeting 2024/4

*9 December 2024 via Zoom*

## Participants (Zoom)
Michael Jähn (MJ),
Matthieu Leclair (ML),
Annika Lauber (AL),
Jonas Jucker (JJ),
Tina Schnadt (TS),
Christian Steger (CS),
Arash Hamzehloo (AH),
Sven Kotlarski (SK),
Mikael Stellio (MikS),
Michael Steiner (MicS)
Doris Folini (DF),
Alina Yapparova (AY),
Erik Koene (EK),
Yi Yao (YY),
Will Sawyer (WS),
Nander Wever (NW),
Matthias Kraushaar (MK),
David Leutwyler (DL)


_Minutes by Annika Lauber_

## Reports

### C2SM (Michael Jähn, Annika Lauber, Matthieu Leclair, Jonas Jucker)
MJ welcomes everyone and shares the [latest news about ICON from C2SM :material-download:](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/uINvAjV0N5LbLUQ){:target="_blank"} (TODO: update link).


MK: hope is to get Säntis up and running tomorrow. If you've had access to Säntis on pre-alps, it should work again.

JJ: will Säntis stay? Can we build on top of Säntis
MK yes. Final vcluster. In the beginning it will be 500 GH nodes, over time it might change. may become kind of hybrid setup. 
AH: didn't have access to Säntis. Do we get access to Säntis? 
MK are you running icon?
MK: have to check. But Daint should also be set up this week.
MK: images may need to adapted, say it's for Todi, but nor for Daint
AH asks if they should get access to Säntis
MK will clarify

DF would be cool to get access to Säntis. Please check for all.

TS: check if addiational projects are on Säntis. Please also get in touch with Anurag


Discussion about Setup CSCS-CI for Alps
WS: what needs to hapen to get trigger mechnaism towork?
JJ got feedback from Ralf and Sergey but have to figure out how to trigger fro manually launched pipeline.
WS who do you need to talk to?
JJ: probably Ralf.
WS so just a matter of time 
JJ yes

## Will Sawyer
a lot going on at CSCS. Where do put test and run data. It's a bit of a mess right now. 

MK probably add mount point to Säntis and Balfrin on store or scratch
SK: would need to access tödi/säntis store from Balfrin.

MK discussion with André and Xavier.

MK probably makes sense to have data on säntis

WS do you need to write?
SK probably not. read access probably not

MK if write access required, there would maybe be a solution

DL same issue is also read-only access on CPU cluster on clariden

MK clariden and säntis access same store

DL: if you solve it for one, do you solve it for both?

MK: users on clariden and säntis will access same store


## Sven Kotlarski
Open question who will become EXCLAIM PI? Will Christoph continue or Andreas takes over

## Alina
Still working on data assimilation. Using EMVORADO

## CS
two topics: looked into new topography dataset for extpar. if you want to run hight resolution, rasta has serious ... effects
other dataset looks quite promosing for running high resolution

lradtopo stuff. unified ICON code from cosmo. should be finished soon

## MikS
finished transition to alps for icon.ham. everything is running. did benchmarks for produciton proposal, looks quite nice, tested 90 levels, required 1000 gpus.

Moved back to old daint, to finish something with lohmann. 16% speedup on ham.
will finish a couple of cleanups

solve problems in the radiation inerface. 5 four-d fields whicht take up 30% of the memory. Have to use much less nproma, which is not great for performance 

MJ. on how many nodes do you run, what are results
MikS run on 44 nodes

## DL
worked with Lukas on precipitation, two much spread on long lead-times. also see too intense precipitation on intentse events. very slow progress. CSCS proposal for TeamX, got declined, even though it had two excellent reviews. No contribution from Switzerland for winter. So not good news on this.

TS: were discussing this with exclaim, question if we could take over the simulation but not sure if for winter

DL time window is closing, because the campaign is in February 

TS will check with Oli and Anurag

## NW

still working on gettting mixed snow model into main branch from icon. 

## DF
not much to share, did becnhermarking for cscs-proposal with icon-exclaim code. r2b7. wnated to go higher but Tödi to unstable. Ported all icon code to new daint as they want to be ready, in case it's needed.

## YY
wanted to do benchmark on tödi wih coarse resolution but tödi not very stable. will start euro-44 again next year.

## AH
managed to compile and run icon-art on Tödi. Managed to merge nwp matser branch. Hopefully next few days will open mr. will contact gatekeeper at KIT. Hopefully in the next OS release 

next year trying to extent. chemistry part of ART

## EK
EK: not working on icon but with ICON. We can run atmospheric inversions for productin using processing chain.






