# ICON Meeting 2025/2

*17 July 2025, ETH Zurich (L 17.1) and via Zoom*

## Participants (on-site)
Michael Jähn (MJ),
Matthieu Leclair (MaL),
Annika Lauber (AL),
Mikael Stellio (MS),
Tina Schnadt (TSP),
Christian Zeman (CZ),
Marius Rixen (MR),
Morgane Lalonde (MoL),
Seraphine Hauser (SH),
Ryan Vella (RV),
Andrea Stenke (AS),
Victoria Bauer (VB)

## Participants (Zoom)
Arash Hamzehloo (AH),
Christoph Müller (CM),
Mauro Bianco (MB),
Christian Steger (CSt),
Dominik Brunner (DB)

_Minutes by Annika Lauber_

## Reports

### C2SM (Michael Jähn, Matthieu Leclair, Annika Lauber, Mikael Stellio)
MJ welcomes everyone and shares the [TODO: latest news about ICON from C2SM :material-download:](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/2H7DBRBQSc4Rtk8){:target="_blank"}.

### CZ
hleping exclaim simulations from Praveen. Quality checks etc. 
Setup for 3km euro-cordex (no nesting at the moment: answer to MaL)
bachelor thesis about potential mixed-precision

### MR
working on extreme events
run icon on different resolutions and see what effects are
want to run ensembles but has no experience and is asklong for help

### ML
working on jsbch (surface model part). Ground water simulations

### S
icon-nwp in limited area mode. High impacts cycles. paly around different boundary conditions. also different resoutions (3-50km).
modify impact of latent heat release

### RV
cloud microphysics with icon-ham but also Icon-nwp
geoengineering
started using icon-nwp

### AS
use icon-art on euler to simulatio atmospheric cycling of trace elements
open phd position for modeling atmospheric sylinium with icon-art (published on eth job site)

### VB
icon-clm with era5 to implement climatological soil mosture. Try to use comin for that but not running.
In parallel trying to get jsbach running in limited area mode

### AH
porting compoenents of icon-art to GPUs. already done moduels related to emissions.
Started looking into aerosols and chemistry for GPUs

### DB
they do a lot of atmopheric composition with icon-art
news: submitted application in icon-art (led by Ali KIT).
A lot of inverse filtering.
finished sutdy on estimating CO2 emissions in Zurich
methan study over Romania (oil gas). Ari borne sensor measures direct sources of methane.
Also do quite some chemistry modeling. Future air polution of europe. Project in paralllel to speed2zero
Comin: already working with it extensively. Bachelor student implements python interface. Making it flexible to extract data during ICON simulaion. Not on GPU yet. They are in contact with the COmin people. Interface will be shared with community. Cannot only extract their tracer fields but also other stuff. Grid information is on CPU and they somehow don't manage to copy to the GPU.

### CM
works for exclaim. Try to have a python version of the dycore. working with people trying to speed up dycore. Goal is 10-40% speedup. If they manage, mch is considering it for production. Daniel Hupp and CM will have master student to test single precision in dycore. Maybe collaboration possible with CZs student (no guarantee)

### MB
Working on several things:
- try to get dycore in python to outperform openacc version
- data compression schemes
- CW platform
- implementation of icon in python without any fortran. can use fortran components but main code will be python. By the end of the year they want to run ideal cases.

### CS
not to be with CS at DWD
working in nwp group. currently working on extpar
involved in copernicus. Useful for very high resolution, e.g. large eddy.
still working on radition topography scheme.
backend fields Fortran. Some new dataset available at 1km.


