# ICON Meeting 2025/3

*19 November 2025, ETH Zurich (L 17.1) and via Zoom*

## Participants (on-site)
Michael J채hn (MJ),
Matthieu Leclair (MaL),
Annika Lauber (AL),
Mikael Stellio (MS),
Christian Zeman (CZ),
Marius Rixen (MR),
Morgane Lalonde (MoL),
Hernandez Urbide Santiago (HUS),
Nadja Omanovic (NO)




## Participants (Zoom)
Tina Schnadt (TSP),
Matthias Kraushaar (MK),
Laurenz Roither (LR),
Sylvaine Ferrachat (SF),
Dominik Brunner (DB),
Alina Yapparova (AY),
Doris Folini (DF),
Corina Keller (CK)
Arash Hamzehloo (AH),
David Leutwyler (DL),
Christian Steger (CS),
Jacopo Canton (JC),
doek?



_Minutes by Annika Lauber_

## Reports

### C2SM (Michael J채hn, Matthieu Leclair, Annika Lauber, Mikael Stellio)
TODO: update link
MJ welcomes everyone and shares the [latest news about ICON from C2SM :material-download:](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/nMrj3n2NWH9mGsW){:target="_blank"}.


CZ asks if there is a limit in space on cws01. MJ says that we currently have 200TB (?).

JC asks if they can store the input data for icon4py there. MJ says yes.


### Dominik Brunner
Talks about ODIN.

MaL ComIN by design happens in serial way. You see no performance reduction because it's light enough. DB yes it lights engough. A heavier one would slow it down.
SF: ComIn is not a coupler. Not meant to be a coupler (that's what developers always point out).
DM but the MESSY(?) peoply use it more like a coupler.

MJ: how much work would it be to make it work for nested domains.
DB no applications yet for that. All you need to do is access full grid information. Doesn't think it will be very difficult. Currently taylored to EMPA usecase. Happy to get other users and get feedback if it's too specific.

DL Do you know if there is a central registry of ComIn plugins.
DB there are ComIN selections but there is no place where it is shown, which interfaces are already available. Should be brought to thde developers.
SF idea was discussed. Florian Prill found this idea very interesting, so it probably something to come to life at some point.



### Christian Zeman
goal is to do DYOMAND run with and without convection. Can maybe already use SIROCCO.

### MR
doing some resolution sensitivity studies for mesoscale circulation.

### MoL
dev. in JSBACH

### Hernandez Urbide Santiago
Over South Americal. 5km resolution whyn and how convection change in the future.

### MK
you can approach him for feature request.

### LR
new phd student .
do ensemble boosting in the Alps. See what's available here.

### CK
using icon-art for air quality impact. by mitigation. Trying to put code devs into art master

### AH
porting art module to GPUs

### DL
parameter tuning for conv runs. looking gust parametriation by G체nther Z채ngl.

### AY
data similation of 3D radar reflectivity to improve precip forecast

### CS
- implement new topographies in extpar. There is now also COPERNICUS dataset
- radiation topography parametrization in ICON. There is also a documentation online now
- implentation of sub-grid scheme. Done and ready for testing
- working on several other issues.
- would be nice to update background albedo in extpar. Thought it would be easy task, but more difficult. In complex terrain there are severe artifacts. Looking into how to get rid of them.

### JC
- high resolution urban modeling.
- icon4py. 

### DF
interested in idealized setups.
How extreme events behave under idealized conditions
