docs/events/icon_meetings/2025-3.md, before:

# ICON Meeting 2025/3

*19 November 2025, ETH Zurich (L 17.1) and via Zoom*

## Participants (on-site)
Michael Jähn (MJ),
Matthieu Leclair (MaL),
Annika Lauber (AL),
Mikael Stellio (MS),
Christian Zeman (CZ),
Marius Rixen (MR),
Morgane Lalonde (MoL),
Hernandez Urbide Santiago (HUS),
Nadja Omanovic (NO)

## Participants (Zoom)
Tina Schnadt (TSP),
Matthias Kraushaar (MK),
Laurenz Roither (LR),
Sylvaine Ferrachat (SF),
Dominik Brunner (DB),
Alina Yapparova (AY),
Doris Folini (DF),
Corina Keller (CK)
Arash Hamzehloo (AH),
David Leutwyler (DL),
Christian Steger (CS),
Jacopo Canton (JC),
doek?



_Minutes by Annika Lauber_

## Reports

### C2SM (Michael Jähn, Matthieu Leclair, Annika Lauber, Mikael Stellio)
TODO: update link
MJ welcomes everyone and shares the [latest news about ICON from C2SM :material-download:](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/nMrj3n2NWH9mGsW){:target="_blank"}.


CZ asks if there is a limit in space on cws01. MJ says that we currently have 200TB (?).

JC asks if they can store the input data for icon4py there. MJ says yes.


### Dominik Brunner
Talks about ODIN.

MaL ComIN by design happens in serial way. You see no performance reduction because it's light enough. DB yes it lights engough. A heavier one would slow it down.
SF: ComIn is not a coupler. Not meant to be a coupler (that's what developers always point out).
DM but the MESSY(?) peoply use it more like a coupler.

MJ: how much work would it be to make it work for nested domains.
DB no applications yet for that. All you need to do is access full grid information. Doesn't think it will be very difficult. Currently taylored to EMPA usecase. Happy to get other users and get feedback if it's too specific.

DL Do you know if there is a central registry of ComIn plugins.
DB there are ComIN selections but there is no place where it is shown, which interfaces are already available. Should be brought to thde developers.
SF idea was discussed. Florian Prill found this idea very interesting, so it probably something to come to life at some point.



### Christian Zeman
Plan to do DYOMAND run with and without convection; may already use SIROCCO.

### Marius Rixen
Resolution-sensitivity studies for mesoscale circulation.

### Morgane Lalonde
Development work in JSBACH.

### Hernandez Urbide Santiago
Running model over South America at 5 km resolution; investigating why and how convection changes in the future.

### Laurenz Roither
New PhD student in Andreas Prein's group; working with ensemble boosting in the Alps;

### Corina Keller
Using ICON-ART for studying air-quality impact and the influence of mitigation; integrating code developments into ART master.

### Arash Hamzehloo
Porting ART module to GPUs.

### David Leutwyler
Working on parameter tuning for convection runs; looking at gust parametrization by Günther Zängl.

### Alina Yapparova
Data assimilation of 3D radar reflectivity to improve precipitation forecasts.

### Christian Steger
- Implementing new topographies in EXTPAR (including COPERNICUS dataset)
- Working on radiation topography parametrization in ICON; documentation available online now
- Sub-grid scheme implemented and ready for testing
- Investigating update of background albedo in EXTPAR; Severe artifacts have been found for complex terrain - trying to solve this

### Jacopo Canton
- Working with high resolution urban modeling.
- Working with ICON4Py. 

### Doris Folini
Interest in idealized setups; studying extreme-event behavior under idealized conditions

Commit message:

change all notes in sentences

docs/events/icon_meetings/2025-3.md, after:

# ICON Meeting 2025/3

*19 November 2025, ETH Zurich (L 17.1) and via Zoom*

## Participants (on-site)
Michael Jähn (MJ),
Matthieu Leclair (MaL),
Annika Lauber (AL),
Mikael Stellio (MS),
Christian Zeman (CZ),
Marius Rixen (MR),
Morgane Lalonde (MoL),
Hernandez Urbide Santiago (HUS),
Nadja Omanovic (NO)

## Participants (Zoom)
Tina Schnadt (TSP),
Matthias Kraushaar (MK),
Laurenz Roither (LR),
Sylvaine Ferrachat (SF),
Dominik Brunner (DB),
Alina Yapparova (AY),
Doris Folini (DF),
Corina Keller (CK)
Arash Hamzehloo (AH),
David Leutwyler (DL),
Christian Steger (CS),
Jacopo Canton (JC),
doek?



_Minutes by Annika Lauber_

## Reports

### C2SM (Michael Jähn, Matthieu Leclair, Annika Lauber, Mikael Stellio)
TODO: update link
MJ welcomes everyone and shares the [latest news about ICON from C2SM :material-download:](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/nMrj3n2NWH9mGsW){:target="_blank"}.

CZ askes whether there is a storage limit on cws01. MJ respondes that the system currently has approximately 200 TB available.

JC asks whether input data for ICON4Py can be stored there. MJ confirms that this is probably possible.


### Dominik Brunner
Presentation about ODIN

MaL points out that ComIn operates in a serial manner by design and asks if no performance reduction is observed because the workload is sufficiently light. DB confirmed that the current implementation is lightweight, noting that a heavier configuration would slow the process.

SF states that ComIn is not a coupler and is not intended to serve as one, which developers regularly emphasize. DM observed that the MESSy interface nevertheless uses ComIn a coupler-like manner.

MJ asks how much effort would be required to enable ComIn to work with nested domains. DB replies that there are currently no applications requiring this functionality. He explains that the main requirement would be access to full grid information and does not expect this to be very difficult. He adds that the current setup is tailored to the EMPA use case and welcomes additional users and feedback to assess whether the design is too specific.

DL asks whether a central registry of ComIn plugins exists. DB states that while ComIn selections are available, there is no central location showing which interfaces already exist, and suggestes raising this with the developers. SF states that the idea had been discussed previously and notes that Florian Prill found the concept promising, so such a registry may be developed in the future.



### Christian Zeman
Plan to do DYOMAND run with and without convection; may already use SIROCCO.

### Marius Rixen
Resolution-sensitivity studies for mesoscale circulation.

### Morgane Lalonde
Development work in JSBACH.

### Hernandez Urbide Santiago
Running model over South America at 5 km resolution; investigating why and how convection changes in the future.

### Laurenz Roither
New PhD student in Andreas Prein's group; working with ensemble boosting in the Alps;

### Corina Keller
Using ICON-ART for studying air-quality impact and the influence of mitigation; integrating code developments into ART master.

### Arash Hamzehloo
Porting ART module to GPUs.

### David Leutwyler
Working on parameter tuning for convection runs; looking at gust parametrization by Günther Zängl.

### Alina Yapparova
Data assimilation of 3D radar reflectivity to improve precipitation forecasts.

### Christian Steger
- Implementing new topographies in EXTPAR (including COPERNICUS dataset)
- Working on radiation topography parametrization in ICON; documentation available online now
- Sub-grid scheme implemented and ready for testing
- Investigating update of background albedo in EXTPAR; Severe artifacts have been found for complex terrain - trying to solve this

### Jacopo Canton
- Working with high resolution urban modeling.
- Working with ICON4Py. 

### Doris Folini
Interest in idealized setups; studying extreme-event behavior under idealized conditions
