# The Alps System

[Alps :material-open-in-new:](https://www.cscs.ch/computers/alps){:target="_blank"} is a distributed high-performance computing (HPC) infrastructure managed by CSCS.
Unlike traditional HPC systems, it is composed of several logical units called vClusters (versatile clusters).

From a user's perspective, these vClusters play the role of traditional HPC machines, with each one tailored
to the needs of a specific community.

This setup also enables geographical distribution of vClusters which facilitates geo-redundancy.
The main physical component of Alps is hosted at CSCS in Lugano and a detailed description can be found in
[their documenation :material-open-in-new:](https://docs.cscs.ch/alps/){:target="_blank"}.

## vClusters

The following table shows current clusters distribution on Alps at CSCS 
(only C2SM relevant clusters are shown).

| vCluster | Activity           | Share                    | C2SM Support       |
|----------|--------------------|--------------------------|--------------------|
| Santis   | Weather & Climate  | ~ 430 Grace-Hopper nodes | :white_check_mark: |
| Balfrin  | MeteoSwiss         | ~ 40 A100 GPU nodes      | :white_check_mark: |
| Eiger    | CPU-only workloads | ~ 580 multicore nodes    | :yellow_circle:    |
| Daint    | User Lab           | ~ 600 Grace-Hopper nodes | :x:                |
| Clariden | Machine Learning   | ~ 800 Grace-Hopper nodes | :x:                |

<small>
:white_check_mark: Full C2SM support<br />
:yellow_circle: Partial or limited C2SM support (help available on request)<br />
:x: No C2SM support
</small>

More information about clusters on Alps is available on the
[official CSCS documentation :material-open-in-new:](https://docs.cscs.ch/alps/clusters/#alps-clusters){:target="_blank"}.

## Access

Connection to vClusters happens as for any other CSCS machine, 
e.g. `ssh santis.cscs.ch` with a `ProxyJump` on `ela.cscs.ch`.
A section in the `~/.ssh/config` could look as follows:

```config title="~/.ssh.config"
Host ela
  Hostname ela.cscs.ch
  User cscsusername
  IdentityFile ~/.ssh/cscs-key

Host santis* daint* 
  Hostname %h.alps.cscs.ch
  User cscsusername
  IdentityFile ~/.ssh/cscs-key
  ProxyJump ela

Host balfrin* 
  Hostname %h.cscs.ch
  User cscsusername
  IdentityFile ~/.ssh/cscs-key
  ProxyJump ela
```

This allows standard connections like `ssh santis`, but you can also specify a login node if needed,
e.g., `ssh santis-ln002`. Replace `cscsusername` with your actual username. 

## User Environments

Software stacks at CSCS are now accessible through the so-called User Environments (uenv). 
User environments contain the minimal software stack required for a certain activity, say, building and running ICON.
They are generated by `spack`, packed into single `squashfs` file and then mounted by the user.
In a way, they can be considered as poor man's containers.

!!! success "Main Advantages of Uenvs"

    To a large degree, we can consider that there is a separation of concerns between software stacks and the 
    machine OS which enables the following:

    - a much reduced maintenance of software stacks
    - system-wide upgrades are limited to the low level OS, so should be way easier, when not transparent to the users
    - upgrading to more recent software stacks or keeping old ones around (think compiler versions) is way easier
    - users (for now C2SM) are able to build their own uenvs
    - quicker access to software compared to classical multi-files directories

!!! info "CSCS Documentation"
    A description of user environments and the `uenv` tool can be found in the 
    [CSCS documentation :material-open-in-new:](https://docs.cscs.ch/software/uenv/){:target="_blank"}. 

## Support by CSCS

General information about access, file systems, vClusters, user environments and much more can be found at the
[CSCS documentation :material-open-in-new:](https://docs.cscs.ch/){:target="_blank"}.

To contact CSCS staff directly, users can join their dedicated
[Slack workspace :material-open-in-new:](https://cscs-users.slack.com){:target="_blank"},
with dedicated channels for each vCluster. 

## Introductory Workshop Material

As an introduction to the Alps infrastructure, the material of our
[C2SM workshop "Switching to Alps"](../posts/2024-07-02_switching_to_Alps.md) from August 12, 2024 is available:

- [Recording :material-download:](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/oSxyJgTjyvJKX8B){:target="_blank"}<br>
- [Slides presenting Alps, vClusters and Uenvs :material-download:](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/jvtIYkBvHUSGZYD){:target="_blank"}<br>
- [Slides for the integration of Uenvs in `spack-c2sm` :material-download:](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/SWbYrOVRIprke60){:target="_blank"} 
