docs/alps/uenvs.md, before:

# User Environments

Software stacks at CSCS are now accessible through the so-called User Environments (uenv). They replace the previous monolithic software stack containing everything from which one could load any module, with all the infinite potential conflicts it involves. User environments contain the minimal software stack required for a certain activity, say, building and running ICON. They are generated by `spack`, packed into single `squashfs` file and then mounted by the user. In a way, they can be considered as poor man's containers.

!!! success "Main Advantages of Uenvs"

    To a large degree, we can consider that there is a separation of concerns between software stacks and the machine OS which enables the following:

    - a much reduced maintenance of software stacks
    - system-wide upgrades are limited to the low level OS, so should be way easier, when not transparent to the users
    - upgrading to more recent software stacks or keeping old ones around (think compiler versions) is way easier
    - users (for now C2SM) are able to build their own uenvs
    - quicker access to software compared to classical multi-files directories
    
## CSCS documentation

A description of user environments and the `uenv` tool can be found in the [CSCS Knowledge Base :material-open-in-new:](https://confluence.cscs.ch/display/KB/UENV+user+environments){:target="_blank"}. 

## Uenvs central Registry and C2SM uenvs

The user environments provided by CSCS are registered in a central database. In the long run we should be able to operate only with those but, at least for the initial period, there might also be the need for uenvs provided by C2SM. These are accessed by their absolute path. All supported uenvs are documented in the corresponding vClsuter section of the [dedicated page](vclusters.md).

!!! warning

    Old software stack images didn't have a mount point in the metadata which is now required for the new versions of the `uenv` tool and its `--uenv` slurm plugin counterpart. If you have images in your local repository that are older than roughly September 5th, please pull them again - it will only update the metadata.

## The `uenv` command line tool

[Official documentation :material-open-in-new:](https://eth-cscs.github.io/uenv/){:target="_blank"}

It can be used to

- query images by metadata: tags, names, target architecture, etc ...
- mount images and work interactively
- run a single command with that uenv mounted
- access uenv modules
 
For now, `uenv` isn't available on Balfrin and requires (easy) [manual installation :material-open-in-new:](https://eth-cscs.github.io/uenv/#getting-uenv){:target="_blank"}:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/eth-cscs/uenv.git && ./uenv/install --local
```

### Quickstart

In the following
- using `name/version:tag` as metadata to target a uenv can be replaced by the absolute path to the image if necessary.
- when a mount point can be passed to a command it defaults to a path stored in the uenv metadata, most often `/user-environment`


#### Create a local images repository 
In order to be able to use uenv images, you first need to `pull`them into a local repository. First create the repo with
```shell
uenv repo create
```

#### List available images
```shell
uenv image find
```

#### Pull an image in the local repo
```shell
uenv image pull name/version:tag
```

#### Start a uenv for interactive use
This will spawn a new shell with the uenv mounted at `/mount-point`
```shell
uenv start name/version:tag [/mount-point]
```
Exit with a usual `exit` or `uenv stop`.

#### Use modules
Software in a uenv can be accessed by using it as a `spack` upstream (see [`spack-c2sm` integration](#spack-c2sm-integration)) but also by loading modules. For that, use the `--view=modules` option:
```shell
uenv start --view=modules name/version:tag [/mount-point]
```
A usual `module avail` command would then show you the different modules added by the uenv on top of the original environment

#### launch a subprocess with a uenv mounted
```shell
uenv run name/version:tag[:mount-point] -- my_command
```
will run `my_command` (can be executing a script) with the uenv mounted. This is particularly useful inside scripts. 

## The `--uenv` SLURM plugin

CSCS developped the `--uenv` slurm plugin in order to mount uenvs at runtime. Either use the name of a uenv in your local repo or the full absolute path to the uenv.

```shell
sbatch --uenv name/version:tag[:/mount/point]
sbatch --uenv /image/path[:/mount/point]
```

as for the `uenv` CLI, `:/mount/point` can always be omitted and defaults to what is found in the uenv metadata. 

On Balfrin, the installed plugin version doesn't allow access via uenv names but `uenv image inspect` can be used to query the corresponding absolute path:

```shell
uenv image inspect prgenv-gnu --format="{sqfs}"
/bret/scratch/cscs/bcumming/.uenv-images/images/1736b4bb5ad9b3c5cae8878c71782a8bf2f2f739dbce8e039b629de418cb4dab/store.squashfs
```

## Mount points

Uenvs cannot be mounted *anywhere*. They are generated with a predefined installation path contained in it, where the user is supposed to mount them. By default the `uenv` tool and slurm plugin will use the path found in the metadata, ususally `/user-environment` and sometimes `/user-tools`. The later path exists for *side* environments that would potentially need to be mounted simultaneously to a *main* one.

## `spack-c2sm` integration

User environments are supported in `spack-c2sm` versions newer than `v0.21.1.3`.
```shell
git clone --depth 1 --recurse-submodules --shallow-submodules -b v0.21.1.3 https://github.com/C2SM/spack-c2sm.git
```
Then start the user environment and use it as a spack upstream with
```shell
uenv start name/version:tag /mount/point
source spack-c2sm/setup-env.sh /mount/point
``` 

!!! note "TODO"

    - [ ] Update official `spack-c2sm` documentation

Commit message:

Update spack-c2sm (#257)
* Add spack-c2sm to tools

* Update C2SM Spack integration

docs/alps/uenvs.md, after:

# User Environments

Software stacks at CSCS are now accessible through the so-called User Environments (uenv). They replace the previous monolithic software stack containing everything from which one could load any module, with all the infinite potential conflicts it involves. User environments contain the minimal software stack required for a certain activity, say, building and running ICON. They are generated by `spack`, packed into single `squashfs` file and then mounted by the user. In a way, they can be considered as poor man's containers.

!!! success "Main Advantages of Uenvs"

    To a large degree, we can consider that there is a separation of concerns between software stacks and the machine OS which enables the following:

    - a much reduced maintenance of software stacks
    - system-wide upgrades are limited to the low level OS, so should be way easier, when not transparent to the users
    - upgrading to more recent software stacks or keeping old ones around (think compiler versions) is way easier
    - users (for now C2SM) are able to build their own uenvs
    - quicker access to software compared to classical multi-files directories
    
## CSCS documentation

A description of user environments and the `uenv` tool can be found in the [CSCS Knowledge Base :material-open-in-new:](https://confluence.cscs.ch/display/KB/UENV+user+environments){:target="_blank"}. 

## Uenvs central Registry and C2SM uenvs

The user environments provided by CSCS are registered in a central database. In the long run we should be able to operate only with those but, at least for the initial period, there might also be the need for uenvs provided by C2SM. These are accessed by their absolute path. All supported uenvs are documented in the corresponding vClsuter section of the [dedicated page](vclusters.md).

!!! warning

    Old software stack images didn't have a mount point in the metadata which is now required for the new versions of the `uenv` tool and its `--uenv` slurm plugin counterpart. If you have images in your local repository that are older than roughly September 5th, please pull them again - it will only update the metadata.

## The `uenv` command line tool

[Official documentation :material-open-in-new:](https://eth-cscs.github.io/uenv/){:target="_blank"}

It can be used to

- query images by metadata: tags, names, target architecture, etc ...
- mount images and work interactively
- run a single command with that uenv mounted
- access uenv modules
 
For now, `uenv` isn't available on Balfrin and requires (easy) [manual installation :material-open-in-new:](https://eth-cscs.github.io/uenv/#getting-uenv){:target="_blank"}:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/eth-cscs/uenv.git && ./uenv/install --local
```

### Quickstart

In the following
- using `name/version:tag` as metadata to target a uenv can be replaced by the absolute path to the image if necessary.
- when a mount point can be passed to a command it defaults to a path stored in the uenv metadata, most often `/user-environment`


#### Create a local images repository 
In order to be able to use uenv images, you first need to `pull`them into a local repository. First create the repo with
```shell
uenv repo create
```

#### List available images
```shell
uenv image find
```

#### Pull an image in the local repo
```shell
uenv image pull name/version:tag
```

#### Start a uenv for interactive use
This will spawn a new shell with the uenv mounted at `/mount-point`
```shell
uenv start name/version:tag [/mount-point]
```
Exit with a usual `exit` or `uenv stop`.

#### Use modules
Software in a uenv can be accessed by using it as a `spack` upstream (see [`spack-c2sm` integration](#spack-c2sm-integration)) but also by loading modules. For that, use the `--view=modules` option:
```shell
uenv start --view=modules name/version:tag [/mount-point]
```
A usual `module avail` command would then show you the different modules added by the uenv on top of the original environment

#### launch a subprocess with a uenv mounted
```shell
uenv run name/version:tag[:mount-point] -- my_command
```
will run `my_command` (can be executing a script) with the uenv mounted. This is particularly useful inside scripts. 

## The `--uenv` SLURM plugin

CSCS developped the `--uenv` slurm plugin in order to mount uenvs at runtime. Either use the name of a uenv in your local repo or the full absolute path to the uenv.

```shell
sbatch --uenv name/version:tag[:/mount/point]
sbatch --uenv /image/path[:/mount/point]
```

as for the `uenv` CLI, `:/mount/point` can always be omitted and defaults to what is found in the uenv metadata. 

On Balfrin, the installed plugin version doesn't allow access via uenv names but `uenv image inspect` can be used to query the corresponding absolute path:

```shell
uenv image inspect prgenv-gnu --format="{sqfs}"
/bret/scratch/cscs/bcumming/.uenv-images/images/1736b4bb5ad9b3c5cae8878c71782a8bf2f2f739dbce8e039b629de418cb4dab/store.squashfs
```

## Mount points

Uenvs cannot be mounted *anywhere*. They are generated with a predefined installation path contained in it, where the user is supposed to mount them. By default the `uenv` tool and slurm plugin will use the path found in the metadata, ususally `/user-environment` and sometimes `/user-tools`. The later path exists for *side* environments that would potentially need to be mounted simultaneously to a *main* one.

## C2SM Spack integration

User environments are supported in [C2SM Spack :material-open-in-new:](https://c2sm.github.io/spack-c2sm/latest){:target="_blank"} versions newer than `v0.21.1.3`.

Clone the repository with the correct Spack version:
```shell
git clone --depth 1 --recurse-submodules --shallow-submodules -b v0.21.1.3 https://github.com/C2SM/spack-c2sm.git
```
Then start the user environment and use it as a Spack upstream:
```shell
uenv start name/version:tag /mount/point
source spack-c2sm/setup-env.sh /mount/point
```
