---
title: 2023/4
layout: default
parent: Quarterly ICON Meeting
grand_parent: Technical Events
---

# ICON Meeting 2023/4 (19 December 2023)

## Venue
Hybrid: ETH Zurich (L 17.1) and via Zoom

## Participants (on-site)
Michael Jähn (MJ),
Matthieu Leclair (ML),
Annika Lauber (AL),
Tina Schnadt (TS),
Andrea Stenke (AS),
Brigitta Goger (BG),
Guillaume Bertolli (GB),
Stefan Rüdisühli (SR),
Jan Zibell (JZ),
Mikael Stellio (MS)


## Participants (Zoom)
Clarissa Kroll (CK),
Emmanuelle Russo (ER),
Fulden Batibeniz (FB),
Doris Folini (DF),
Will Sawyer (WS)

_Minutes by Annika Lauber_

## Reports

### C2SM (Michael Jähn, Annika Lauber, Matthieu Leclair)
MJ welcomes everyone and shares the [latest news about ICON from C2SM](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/8yXCB1ZKlhly3DN).

#### Aerosol Dataset Tests
ER asks about awareness of the aerosol dataset tests.
MJ is unsure of the location of the tests.
ER asks about the nesting and setup of their domain.
MJ explains that they are using the EURO-CORDEX setup, currently 12km resolution (aiming for higher). They are using SPACE, so the default configuration.
ER warns of ongoing problems with the default configuration, despite higher radiation it leads to too low a temperature at 2m. Work is ongoing in the CLM community, with progress expected next month.
MJ acknowledges time constraints and suggests discussing offline.

#### Progress on Two-Moment Microphysics Scheme on GPU
BG asks since when the explicit scheme is on the master.
AL answers that it was merged a few weeks ago (information on that can be found in the GitHub issue [Speed up two-moment microphysics scheme on GPU](https://github.com/C2SM/Tasks-Support/issues/3)).
WS asks why the implicit scheme does not run on Daint.
AL replies that this is due to a compiler bug, which will not be fixed before Daint's decommissioning.

#### Probtest (Tolerance Tests) Development
JZ asks if the GPU run is wrong, it means that it is physically wrong.
AL answers that if there is a bug in the GPU port it can be physically wrong, but small bugs may not be obviously physically wrong.




### Andrea Stenke
AS uses ICON-ART to simulate atmospheric cycles of trace elements. AS is currently busy with model developments, setting up global amip type simulation, which is running on Euler. 
She asks if there are more input files on CSCS.
MJ replies that it depends on what they want.
AS will ask for specific resolution to have available on Euler.
WS comments that they have data for test cases for almost everything you can think of. The data can be ported over from Levante.

### Brigitta Goger
BG uses ICON on Daint in a limited area set up with high resolution, down to 100m. The newest version of the ICON model is stable also below 100m. It works down to 65m. 

### Guillaume Bertolli
GB uses the radiation part of the ICON model. He tries to emulate radiation on ML. The issue with the upper atmosphere is solved by using super simple model. The overall speed up of the GPU version using ML compared to the ECRAD version is 3.
TS asks how often the radiation is called.
GB states that it is called every 3 minutes.

### Stefan Rüdisühli
SR is working on a high resolution setup over atlantic. He also reports news from Sebastian Schemm that the aquaplanet simulation paper got accepted ([Link to preprint](https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2023-1196)).

### Jan Zibell
JZ does analysis of ICON simulations and will start with aquaplanet ensemble runs looking at storm tracks using a 1 degree simulation.
ML asks how long the period is and how many ensembles he is going to use.
JZ answers that it is five times in 10 years. For high resolved you have to ask SS or AD.

### Mikael Stellio
MK is working on ICON-HAM together with Sylvaine doing GPU ports. They run with a resolution of 160km. In the past ast months, they managed to run with 40kmand plan to go to less but have problems with the input data. MS is also doing scaling analysis but it doesn't scale as well as icon-nwp because of more tracers.
MS also helped with problems with the pollen simulation.
MS reports that he played with new version of probtest and could reduce to 5 ensemble members for their test case, which seems to be stable for now.

### Will Sawyer
WS reports that there are a number of delays with Alps. Daint will be decomissioned some time in summer next year. For January it is planned to have a pre-Alps system on a virtual system, which will look like several machines. The pre-Alps system will be devoted specifically to EXCLAIM. They will start compiling the DSL branch in January and try to get benchmarks. Alps is planned to be available in April/May and as soon as it is there, Daint will be gone very quickly as they cannot run two systems.

### Doris Folini
DF didn't work with ICON recently and reports on behalf of Boriana, who uses an ancient version of ICON. They hope that they get the revisions for Boriana's paper back as before Daint is gone.

### Emmanuelle Russo
ES uses same version as DF with ECHAM physics. There are quite some developments. They have a version of ICON called ICON-DRY. It comes with the tppurtunity to add weights in model to change values of SSTs.

### Fulden Batibeniz
FB runs ICON with seasonal prediction investigation draught but no moisture is available on layers. She asks if somebody has something available.
WS: we might have that type of data. Not aware of layer moisture or what it will be named. presumably it is on levante.

### Clarissa Kroll
CK works with ICON-DSL and hopes to have km simulation on Alps. They are looking at atmospheric responses to different SST patches on the pacific. CK is Doing sensitivy tests with ICON. She states that soil moisture data should be available but it is super difficult to get access. Access can be received via MCH and it takes months. It would be much easier if it is available on Levante.
WS asks if there haven't been any more technical issues?
CK states that the model is running. The want to test on the pre-Alps system in April
