events/icon_meetings/2023-3.md, before:

---
title: ICON Meeting 2023/3
layout: default
parent: Quarterly ICON Meeting
grand_parent: Events
---

# ICON Meeting 2023/3 (26 September 2023)

## Venue
Hybrid: ETH Zurich (L 17.1) and via Zoom

## Participants (on-site)
Michael Jähn (MJ), Jonas Jucker (JJ),  Annika Lauber (AL), Fulden Batibeniz (FB), Clarissa Kroll (CK), Jacopo Canton (JC), Doris Folini (DF), Emmanuelle Russo (ER), Stefan Rüdisühli (SR), Guillaume Bertoli (GB), Jan Zibell (JZ), Nadja Omanovic (NO), Andrea Stenke (AS)


## Participants (Zoom)
Matthieu Leclair (ML), Arash Hamzehloo (AH), Corina Keller (CK), Marco Arpagaus (MA), Brigitta Goger (BG), Katrin Ehlert (KE), Mikael Stellio (MS), Chia Rui Ong (CRO), William Saywer (WS)

_Minutes by Annika Lauber_

## Reports

### C2SM (Michael Jähn, Annika Lauber, Jonas Jucker, Matthieu Leclair)

MJ welcomes all the participants to the meeting and presents the [news from C2SM about ICON](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/WF4JiBulij5UqXF/download?path=%2F2023-09-26&files=ICON_Meeting_2023_09_26.pdf).

_tbd_

Commit message:

Add discussion about 2-mom scheme

events/icon_meetings/2023-3.md, after:

---
title: ICON Meeting 2023/3
layout: default
parent: Quarterly ICON Meeting
grand_parent: Events
---

# ICON Meeting 2023/3 (26 September 2023)

## Venue
Hybrid: ETH Zurich (L 17.1) and via Zoom

## Participants (on-site)
Michael Jähn (MJ), Jonas Jucker (JJ),  Annika Lauber (AL), Fulden Batibeniz (FB), Clarissa Kroll (CK), Jacopo Canton (JC), Doris Folini (DF), Emmanuelle Russo (ER), Stefan Rüdisühli (SR), Guillaume Bertoli (GB), Jan Zibell (JZ), Nadja Omanovic (NO), Andrea Stenke (AS)


## Participants (Zoom)
Matthieu Leclair (ML), Arash Hamzehloo (AH), Corina Keller (CK), Marco Arpagaus (MA), Brigitta Goger (BG), Katrin Ehlert (KE), Mikael Stellio (MS), Chia Rui Ong (CRO), William Saywer (WS)

_Minutes by Annika Lauber_

## Reports

### C2SM (Michael Jähn, Annika Lauber, Jonas Jucker, Matthieu Leclair)

MJ welcomes all the participants to the meeting and presents the [news from C2SM about ICON](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/WF4JiBulij5UqXF/download?path=%2F2023-09-26&files=ICON_Meeting_2023_09_26.pdf).

**Discussion about presented results of the speed-up of the two-moment microphysics scheme after EuroHack23:**
MA asks what the difference is between the implicit and the explicit scheme.
AL answers that the implicit scheme depends on the status of the next timestep and the current time, while the explicit scheme does not. 

WS asks if it is a fair to compare the timings of the explicit scheme with the implicit scheme. He reports on behalf of Anurag Dipankar that he is worried about stability issues with the explicit scheme.

JJ answers that those are preliminary results and it's not a totally fair comparion. He suggests to have scientific work, e.g. a master thesis for comparing the explicit and implicit scheme.
