---
title: 2024/1
layout: default
parent: Quarterly ICON Meeting
grand_parent: Technical Events
---

# ICON Meeting 2024/1 (21 March 2024)

## Venue
Hybrid: ETH Zurich (L 17.1) and via Zoom

## Participants (on-site)
Michael Jähn (MJ),
Matthieu Leclair (ML),
Annika Lauber (AL),
Jonas Jucker (JJ),
Fulden Batibeniz (FB),
Emmanuele Russo (ER),
Athena Nghiem (AN),
Andrea Stenke (AS),
Sylvaine Ferrachat (SF)


## Participants (Zoom)
Marco Arpagaus (MA),
Will Sawyer (WS),
Alina Yapparova (AY),
Arash Hamzehloo (AH),
Mikael Stellio (MS),
David Leutwyler (DL),
Dominik Brunner (DB),
Corina Keller (CK),
Michael Steiner (MicS),
Stefan Rüdisühli (SR),
Christian Steger (CS),
Jan Zibell (JZ),
Kutay Dönmez (KD)



_Minutes by Annika Lauber_

## Reports

### C2SM (Michael Jähn, Annika Lauber, Matthieu Leclair)
MJ welcomes everyone and shares the [latest news about ICON from C2SM](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/4fXixLycOwOy41K).

ER asks about the bug in the volcanic transient Kinne aerosols.
AL clarifies that the bug is present on CPU also.

### Sylvaine Ferrachat
SF reports about PhD student Andrina Caratsch, who is going to study tropical cyclones with ICON-HAM at high resolution (10km and below). They were successful in setting up this type of expirment and running 10km global for a few time step. They are currently still using ICON version 2.6.4 but want to upgrade to the open source release.

### Andrea Stenke
AS uses ICON-ART on Euler and now has an account at CSCS to access the data pool. With the help of MJ, AS managed to implement her own script to the processing chain tool on Euler. AS had to learn that the latest version of ICON (2.6.6) does not support AMIP runs anymore.

### Arash Hamzehloo
AH is implementing arsenic into ICON-ART and will continue with implementing emissions.

### Emmanuele Russo
ER is focusing on developing an aqua planet with a dry atmosphere. For ICON-CLM, they are still working on the definite setup for EURO-CORDEX, which they should have at the end of April. They have issues with the short wave radiation but managed to reduce the bias by basically increasing the cloud cover everywhere. For there setup, code changes in ICON are necessary, which will be merged into the master branch of ICON soon. ER thinks that the code changes may require some extra GPU ports.
DB asks generally about the project and what CLM stands for.
ER explains that CLM stands for CLimate Mode and not should not be confused with Climate Land Model (same abbreviation).
DB asks if C2SM/EXCLAIM wants to use same setup.
MJ confirms that EXCLAIM should basically use the same setup but running it on GPU.
DB asks if this is also the reason why the transient aerosols are important.
MJ confirms that the transient aerosol dataset is needed as the climatologial aerosols showed bias and is relatively old, so not representative for nowadays.

### Fulden Batibeniz
FB plans to run EURO-CORDEX with seasonal forecast and is waiting for the final version of ICON (with transient aerosols).
DB asks about FB's group at university of Bern (Climate and Environmental Physics) and if they plan to transition to ICON now.
FB responds that she is responsible for the transition of ICON to the group.

### Will Sawyer
WS reports that the new Alps system is arriving and that they prepared a virtual cluster as a sandbox. There are still numerous technical problems, e.g., the machine frequently goes down but that should hopefully be solved when everybody gets access.
ICON is one of the main applications they are testing on pre-Alps system.
WS shows slides: pre-Alps is simulating 85 simulated days per day with 5km resolution.
WS also shows a comparison between Daint and Santis. The first result shows a speedup factor of 6, which is a bit less than expected. However, the new GPUs have much more memory and are thus not filled up, so it's not fair comparision. Doing a fair comparison, they see a speedup factor of 9.
ICON-DSL has roughly the same performance but they are happy it's running and it should be improved.
Running same simulation on CPUs shows that pre-Alps has very powerful CPUs. One Grace has 72 cores. They are running the ocean on CPU.
DB asks how easy it is to find a proper configuration (which nproma), which runs efficiently on Grace-Hopper and if there will be a recipe.
WS answers that for the DLS version, which can only calculate wih one block, nproma should be as large as possible but here are memory constraints at some point. The maximum is what still fits on one GPU. They will give recipe for GPU version and can also do that for CPU version (optimal nproma seems to be 48).
MA asks about a reported speedup factor of 1.4.
WS clarifies that this is with respect to Balfrin.
MJ asks if the reported information will be available.
WS will share slides and needs a couple of weeks more to come back with the speedup factors.
MS asks why advection is 2 times slower on Alps compared to Balfrin.
WS responds that there are some issues, which could be numerical, but also be memory issue. That is one of the reasons why the need some more time to report the exact numbers.

### Christian Steger
CS just started at MCH and will work on the physics of ICON. He will look at interaction between topography and surface radiation.

### Alina Yapparova 
AY also just joined MCH and will be working on the GLORY project with 3D radiation data.

### Marco Arpagaus
MA reports about ICON-22. They are still struggling with the machine that gets rebooted every other day, which is one of the downsides of Alps. ICON is still performing well. There haven't been and bad surprises since ICON is running pre-operational. ICON performs better than COSMO in almost every aspect. Only a few systematic biases are larger. The most prominant one is the 2m temperature. They have a few ideas about how to improve the temperature bias but this will not be operational immediately as they need to collect enough statistics for the post-processing before changing something on the model. The current date for going operational is May.
DB aks what the ideas are about solving 2m temperature bias.
MA outlines that some periods did not have a proper snow analysis and there is radiation shading yet. Apart from that, the minimum diffusion coefficient needs to be adjusted to allow stronger stabilization in winter time.

### Arash Hamzehloo
AH works on porting ART components to GPU. There is an open merge request with adds additional functionality.

### Corina Keller
CK plans setting up and running air quality simulation. CK recently added a full chemistry case to the processing chain tool.
MJ offers to contact him for the precessing chain tool.
CK wants to come back to MJ, when she gets to the implementation.

### Michael Steiner
MicS uses ICON-ART with many passive tracers and everything runs smoothly so far.

### Kutay Dönmez
KD working on integrating something into ICON, resolving something on urban climate.
DB asks something with CORINE land cover?

### Mikael Stellio
MK added the infrastructure from EXCLAIM to HAM? He is currently working on Tsa as it is easier to use GT4PY there.
