docs/tasks/working_groups.md, before:

# Working Groups

## WG 1 - High Performance Computing

Activities for this group mainly contribute to the further development and usage of next-generation weather and climate models such as ICON or COSMO using innovative coding concepts (e.g., beyond CPU architectures).

## WG 2 - Weather and Climate Modeling

This group gathers all activities revolving around weather and climate modelling with the exception of WG 1 (HPC), like usage, maintenance and support. They can target weather and climate models and their potential extensions (e.g. aerosols, chemistry) and ESMs. Tasks may include coupling of model components, general tools around pre- and post-processing, automated testing, etc.

## WG 3 - Next Generation Swiss Climate Scenarios

This group focuses on the next generation of Swiss Climate Scenarios. Tasks typically include data quality and control, management, and processing. In addition, we run ICON-CLM simulations.

## WG 4 - Impact Research

This group focuses on providing climate data for impact research. Tasks may include standardising and documenting climate model outputs or climate observations for easier use. We also provide regular support on how to use this type of data.

Commit message:

Add WG Days 7+8 and cross-references

docs/tasks/working_groups.md, after:

# Working Groups

!!! info
    Minutes and slides from the annual C2SM Working Group Days can be found under the corresponding [Events page](../events/wgdays.md).

## WG 1 - High Performance Computing

Activities for this group mainly contribute to the further development and usage of next-generation weather and climate models such as ICON or COSMO using innovative coding concepts (e.g., beyond CPU architectures).

## WG 2 - Weather and Climate Modeling

This group gathers all activities revolving around weather and climate modelling with the exception of WG 1 (HPC), like usage, maintenance and support. They can target weather and climate models and their potential extensions (e.g. aerosols, chemistry) and ESMs. Tasks may include coupling of model components, general tools around pre- and post-processing, automated testing, etc.

## WG 3 - Next Generation Swiss Climate Scenarios

This group focuses on the next generation of Swiss Climate Scenarios. Tasks typically include data quality and control, management, and processing. In addition, we run ICON-CLM simulations.

## WG 4 - Impact Research

This group focuses on providing climate data for impact research. Tasks may include standardising and documenting climate model outputs or climate observations for easier use. We also provide regular support on how to use this type of data.
