tools/extpar.md, before:

---
title: EXTPAR
layout: default
parent: Tools
---

# EXTPAR

EXTPAR (External Parameters for Numerical Weather Prediction and Climate Application) is an official COSMO Consortium software that generates external parameter fields used as input for the COSMO and ICON models. 

## Access

In order to get access to the [EXTPAR repository hosted on the C2SM-RCM GitHub organization](https://github.com/C2SM-RCM/extpar), 
please contact [Jonas Jucker](https://c2sm.ethz.ch/the-center/people/person-detail.html?persid=210923).

Once you have access, please follow the instructions in the [README of EXTPAR](https://github.com/C2SM-RCM/extpar#readme) carefully.

## Web Interfaces for External Parameters

Currently there are two web interfaces to generate the external parameters automatically:

* [WebPEP](https://hcdc.hereon.de/clm-community/webpep/webpep) - online external parameter file generator for COSMO (CLM login required)
* [PAMORE](https://webservice.dwd.de/cgi-bin/spp1167/webservice.cgi) - online ICON-grid and external parameter file generator for ICON (DWD login required)

## Documentation

EXTPAR documentation is attached as an asset of each [release on GitHub](https://github.com/C2SM-RCM/extpar/releases), where it can be downloaded as pdf.

Commit message:

add(support): start adding support info, see #80

tools/extpar.md, after:

---
title: EXTPAR
layout: default
parent: Tools
---

# EXTPAR

EXTPAR (External Parameters for Numerical Weather Prediction and Climate Application) is an official COSMO Consortium software that generates external parameter fields used as input for the COSMO and ICON models.

## Support status

The `master` branch of EXTPAR is continuously tested on Piz Daint

## Access

In order to get access to the [EXTPAR repository hosted on the C2SM-RCM GitHub organization](https://github.com/C2SM-RCM/extpar), 
please contact [Jonas Jucker](https://c2sm.ethz.ch/the-center/people/person-detail.html?persid=210923).

Once you have access, please follow the instructions in the [README of EXTPAR](https://github.com/C2SM-RCM/extpar#readme) carefully.

## Web Interfaces for External Parameters

Currently there are two web interfaces to generate the external parameters automatically:

* [WebPEP](https://hcdc.hereon.de/clm-community/webpep/webpep) - online external parameter file generator for COSMO (CLM login required)
* [PAMORE](https://webservice.dwd.de/cgi-bin/spp1167/webservice.cgi) - online ICON-grid and external parameter file generator for ICON (DWD login required)

## Documentation

EXTPAR documentation is attached as an asset of each [release on GitHub](https://github.com/C2SM-RCM/extpar/releases), where it can be downloaded as pdf.
