tools/spice.md, before:

---
title: SPICE
layout: default
parent: Tools
---

# SPICE

SPICE stands for **S**tarter **P**ackage for **I**CON-**C**LM **E**xperiments. It is a processing chain that handles pre-processing of the input,
setting up namelists, running the simulation and archiving/post-processing. It contains the latest setup for ICON-CLM
runs by the CLM community.

The code has been adapted for running on Piz Daint and is distributed to users via the C2SM GitHub organization. Regular testing is done via [Jenkins](https://jenkins-mch.cscs.ch/job/Spice/job/spice-weekly/) (requires access) to ensure that the code runs stably on the system.

If there are any questions or you want to provide your ICON-CLM setup, please contact [Michael Jähn](https://c2sm.ethz.ch/the-center/people/person-detail.html?persid=286091).

## Code

* [Spice at the C2SM Github organization](https://github.com/C2SM/spice)
* [Spice at DKRZ GitLab (original code)](https://gitlab.dkrz.de/clm-community/spice) (requires access to DKRZ GitLab)

## Documentation

* [https://clm-docs.scrollhelp.site/spice-doc/](https://clm-docs.scrollhelp.site/spice-doc/)

Commit message:

Support (#86)
* add: first part of supported software and libraries

* ref(suuported_software): move to its own section

* add(support): start adding support info, see #80

* add(support icon): add placeholder table

* ref(cosmo support): rephrase and move supported branches

* add(int2lm support): statement for int2lm support

* add(support): placeholder sections for support to be filled

* del(ICON): remove collapsible table of features ported to gpu

To hard to maintain it for a such a moving target

* upd(support): update missing support status

* ref(cosmo): change font for collapsible and gpu ported features

* fix(typo): Piz Daint without, not Piz'Daint

tools/spice.md, after:

---
title: SPICE
layout: default
parent: Tools
---

# SPICE

SPICE stands for **S**tarter **P**ackage for **I**CON-**C**LM **E**xperiments. It is a processing chain that handles pre-processing of the input,
setting up namelists, running the simulation and archiving/post-processing. It contains the latest setup for ICON-CLM
runs by the CLM community.

The code has been adapted for running on Piz Daint and is distributed to users via the C2SM GitHub organization. Regular testing is done via [Jenkins](https://jenkins-mch.cscs.ch/job/Spice/job/spice-weekly/) (requires access) to ensure that the code runs stably on the system.

If there are any questions or you want to provide your ICON-CLM setup, please contact [Michael Jähn](https://c2sm.ethz.ch/the-center/people/person-detail.html?persid=286091).

## Support status

The `main` branch is continuously tested on Piz Daint.

## Code

* [Spice at the C2SM Github organization](https://github.com/C2SM/spice)
* [Spice at DKRZ GitLab (original code)](https://gitlab.dkrz.de/clm-community/spice) (requires access to DKRZ GitLab)

## Documentation

* [https://clm-docs.scrollhelp.site/spice-doc/](https://clm-docs.scrollhelp.site/spice-doc/)
